

Now, the VOA Special English program WORDS AND THEIR STORIES.

Cold weather has a great effect on how our minds and our bodies work.
Maybe that is why there are so many expressions that use the word cold.

For centuries, the body's blood has been linked closely with the
emotions. People who show no human emotions or feelings, for example,
are said to be cold-blooded.  Cold-blooded people act in cruel ways.
They may do brutal things to others, and not by accident.

For example, a newspaper says the police are searching for a
cold-blooded killer.  The killer murdered someone, not in self-defense,
or because he was reacting to anger or fear.  He seemed to kill for no
reason, and with no emotion, as if taking someone's life meant nothing.

Cold can affect other parts of the body.  The feet, for example.  Heavy
socks can warm your feet, if your feet are really cold.  But there is
an expression -- to get cold feet -- that has nothing to do with cold
or your feet.

The expression means being afraid to do something you had decided to
do. For example, you agree to be president of an organization.  But
then you learn that all the other officers have resigned.  All the work
of the organization will be your responsibility.  You are likely to get
cold feet about being president when you understand the situation.

Cold can also affect your shoulder.

You give someone the cold shoulder when you refuse to speak to them.
You treat them in a distant, cold way.  The expression probably comes
from the physical act of turning your back toward someone, instead of
speaking to him face-to-face.  You may give a cold shoulder to a friend
who has not kept a promise he made to you.  Or, to someone who has lied
about you to others.

A cold fish is not a fish.  It is a person.  But it is a person who is
unfriendly, unemotional and shows no love or warmth.  A cold fish does
not offer much of himself to anyone.

Someone who is a cold fish could be cold-hearted.  A cold-hearted
person is someone who has no sympathy.  Several popular songs in recent
years were about cold-hearted men or cold-hearted women who, without
feeling, broke the hearts of their lovers.

Out in the cold is an expression often heard.  It means not getting
something that everybody else got.  A person might say that everybody
but him got a pay raise, that he was left out in the cold.  And it is
not a pleasant place to be.

This VOA Special English program, WORDS AND THEIR STORIES, was written
by  Marilyn Rice Christiano.  Maurice Joyce was the narrator.  I'm
Shirley Griffith.

   