

Now, the VOA Special English program WORDS AND THEIR STORIES.

Today, we tell about the word wildcat.

Humans have always depended on animals. From the beginning of human
history, wild animals provided food, clothing and sometimes medicine.

We may not depend as much on wild animals now. But we hear about them
every day. Americans use the names of animals in many ways.

Many companies use animals to make us want to buy their goods.
Automobile companies, for example, love to show fast horses when they
are trying to sell their cars. They also name their cars for other fast
powerful animals.

Automobile manufacturers and gasoline companies especially like to use
big cats to sell their products. They like lions, tigers and wildcats.

When Americans say wildcat, they usually mean a lynx, an ocelot or a
bobcat. All these cats attack quickly and fiercely. So wildcats
represent something fast and fierce.

What better way is there to sell a car than to say it is as fast as a
wildcat. Or, what better way is there to sell gasoline than to say that
using it is like putting a tiger in your tank.

An early American use of the word wildcat was quite different. It was
used to describe members of Congress who declared war on Britain in
eighteen twelve.  A magazine of that year said the wildcat congressmen
went home. It said they were unable to face the responsibility of
having involved their country in an unnecessary war.

Wildcat also has been used as a name for money. It was used this way in
the eighteen hundreds. At that time, some states permitted banks to
make their own money. One bank in the state of Michigan offered paper
money with a picture of a wildcat on it.

Some banks, however, did not have enough gold to support all the paper
money they offered. So the money had little or no value. It was called
a wildcat bill or a wildcat bank note. The banks who offered this money
were called wildcat banks.

A newspaper of the time said those were the days of wildcat money. It
said a man might be rich in the morning and poor by night.

Wildcat was used in another way in the eighteen hundreds. It was used
for an oil well or gold mine that had almost no oil or gold in it.
Dishonest developers would buy such property. Then they would sell it
and leave town with the money. The buyers were left with worthless
holes in the ground. Today, wildcat oil wells are in areas that are not
known to have oil.

Yet another kind of wildcat is the wildcat strike. That is a strike
called without official approval by a union. During World War Two, an
American publication accused wildcat strikers of slowing government
production.

This VOA Special English program, Words and Their Stories, was written
by Jeri Watson. I'm Warren Scheer.